README.md, before:

# ML_Hardware_accelerator-compatible-with-arm-processor-
This a hardware implementation of custom Digital IC, the standard architecture for a powerful hardware accelerator that commonly connects to an ARM processor (or similar RISC based processors) on a larger SoC.
### Understanding DMA-Enabled ML Accelerator

This an advanced and highly effective architecture for an ML accelerator, commonly found in high-performance computing and embedded AI systems. This design leverages **DMA (Direct Memory Access)** to avoid the CPU bottleneck, allowing this custom chip to operate at maximum efficiency.

#### The Big Picture: CPU + Accelerator + RAM

Imagine your entire system as three main components:

1.  **CPU (Central Processing Unit):**
    * **Role:** It runs the high-level software (your application), manages the operating system, and sends commands to the accelerator.
    * **Interaction:** Communicates with your accelerator's **control registers** via a low-bandwidth **AXI-Lite bus**.(maybe a memory mapped register interface)

2.  **External RAM (DDR/SRAM):**
    * **Role:** The "Storage" for all large data: your ML model weights, the input images/text, and the final results.
    * **Interaction:** Both the CPU and your accelerator can access this, but the accelerator does so directly via a high-bandwidth **AXI-Master bus** using DMA.

3.  **Your Verilog Accelerator IC:**
    * **Role:** It performs the heavy mathematical calculations of ML inference in parallel, at high speed.
    * **Interaction:**
        * **Receives commands** from the CPU (via AXI-Lite).
        * **Directly reads/writes large data** from/to external RAM (via AXI-Master DMA).
        * **Processes data** internally using its specialized `ml_processing_unit`.
        * **Notifies the CPU** when it's done (via an interrupt or status register).

#### How It Works: The Workflow

This is the exact sequence of events for performing an ML inference:

1.  **CPU Sets Up RAM (Software):**
    * Your CPU (running C++ code) first loads the ML model's **weights** from its own storage (e.g., flash memory, SSD) into a specific region of the **external RAM**. It knows the *start address* and *size* of these weights.
    * Similarly, it loads the **input data** (image pixels, text embeddings) into another specific region of the **external RAM**. It notes its *start address* and *size*.
    * It designates a third region in external RAM for the **output results**.

2.  **CPU Configures Accelerator (AXI-Lite Writes):**
    * The CPU writes to your accelerator's **control registers** (defined in `ml_accelerator_top.v`):
        * `ADDR_WGT_BASE_ADDR`: Where the weights begin in RAM.
        * `ADDR_WGT_SIZE`: How many bytes of weights.
        * `ADDR_INPUT_BASE_ADDR`: Where the input begins in RAM.
        * `ADDR_INPUT_SIZE`: How many bytes of input.
        * `ADDR_OUTPUT_BASE_ADDR`: Where the results should be written in RAM.
        * `ADDR_OP_CODE_REG`: This is crucial! It tells the accelerator *what kind of ML operation* to perform (e.g., a Convolutional Layer, a Fully Connected Layer, a ReLU activation, etc.).
        * `ADDR_OP_PARAMS_REG_0`, `ADDR_OP_PARAMS_REG_1`: Parameters for that operation (e.g., filter size, stride, number of channels, input tensor dimensions).

3.  **CPU Initiates Accelerator (AXI-Lite Write):**
    * The CPU writes a `1` to `ADDR_CONTROL_REG` (specifically, setting the `cpu_start_accel` bit). This is the "Go!" command.
    * The CPU is now **free** to do other tasks! It doesn't need to babysit the data transfer.

4.  **Accelerator Takes Over (DMA & Internal Computation):**
    * Your accelerator's main **FSM** (`current_state` in `ml_accelerator_top.v`) starts its sequence:
        * **`FSM_DMA_READ_WEIGHTS`:** It activates the internal `dma_controller.v`. The DMA controller independently reads the weights from the `ADDR_WGT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM and streams them directly into the `ml_processing_unit.v`.
        * **`FSM_DMA_READ_INPUT`:** Once weights are transferred, the DMA controller reads the input data from `ADDR_INPUT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM and streams it into the `ml_processing_unit.v`.
        * **`FSM_COMPUTE`:** The `ml_processing_unit.v` takes the streamed data and, using the `op_code` and `op_params`, performs the specified ML operation (e.g., a massive matrix multiplication for a convolutional layer). This happens at your IC's maximum clock speed and parallelism ("minimum clock cycle").
        * **`FSM_DMA_WRITE_OUTPUT`:** The `ml_processing_unit.v` streams its results to the DMA controller, which then writes them back to the `ADDR_OUTPUT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM.

5.  **Accelerator Signals Completion (Interrupt / Status Register):**
    * Once the DMA write is complete, the FSM transitions to `FSM_DONE`.
    * It sets the "Done" bit in `ADDR_STATUS_REG` and sends an **interrupt** signal to the CPU.

6.  **CPU Retrieves Results:**
    * The CPU receives the interrupt (or periodically polls `ADDR_STATUS_REG`).
    * It then directly reads the results from the `ADDR_OUTPUT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM, knowing that the accelerator has placed them there.

#### Why This Is Fast and Flexible

* **DMA for Speed:** The CPU is never involved in moving large blocks of data. The DMA controller does it directly and very efficiently. This is critical for high-bandwidth applications like image processing.
* **Programmable Accelerator:** By writing `op_code` and `op_params` to registers, your single `ml_processing_unit.v` can perform *different types of ML operations*. This means it's not hardwired for just one model. You can chain together multiple operations (e.g., CONV -> RELU -> POOL -> FC) by sending a sequence of commands to the accelerator.
* **Minimum Clock Cycle Core:** The `ml_processing_unit.v` itself contains the highly parallel, pipelined hardware (like systolic arrays) that performs the actual mathematical operations in the fastest possible way.

* **Hardware Instructions:** A set of **primitive operations** that your hardware can perform.
    * **Common ML Primitives:**
        * Matrix Multiplication (Multiply-Accumulate, MAC) - for Convolutional and Fully Connected layers
        * Element-wise Addition/Subtraction/Multiplication
        * Activation Functions (ReLU, Sigmoid, Tanh) - usually implemented as lookup tables or simple comparators.
        * Pooling (Max Pool, Average Pool)
        * Normalization (Batch Norm)
    * Your `ml_processing_unit.v` would have dedicated, optimized hardware blocks for each of these primitives.

* **Software Layer:(after we are done with the verilog implementation)** We would then write a software library (e.g., a C++ library on the CPU) that breaks down a full ML model (like a TensorFlow Lite model) into a sequence of these primitive operations. The CPU then sends these operations, one by one, to your accelerator.

        accelerator.wait_for_interrupt();
        // ... and so on for each layer of the model
        ```

This modular approach allows you to implement various ML models by simply changing the sequence of primitive operations and their parameters that the CPU sends to your versatile hardware accelerator.

Commit message:

Add image of ML accelerator schematic to README
Added an image to the README to illustrate the ML accelerator architecture.

README.md, after:

# ML_Hardware_accelerator-compatible-with-arm-processor-
This a hardware implementation of custom Digital IC, the standard architecture for a powerful hardware accelerator that commonly connects to an ARM processor (or similar RISC based processors) on a larger SoC.
### Understanding DMA-Enabled ML Accelerator

This an advanced and highly effective architecture for an ML accelerator, commonly found in high-performance computing and embedded AI systems. This design leverages **DMA (Direct Memory Access)** to avoid the CPU bottleneck, allowing this custom chip to operate at maximum efficiency.

#### The Big Picture: CPU + Accelerator + RAM
![This is the alt text for my image](/images/ml_accelerator_schematic.jpg)
Imagine your entire system as three main components:

1.  **CPU (Central Processing Unit):**
    * **Role:** It runs the high-level software (your application), manages the operating system, and sends commands to the accelerator.
    * **Interaction:** Communicates with your accelerator's **control registers** via a low-bandwidth **AXI-Lite bus**.(maybe a memory mapped register interface)

2.  **External RAM (DDR/SRAM):**
    * **Role:** The "Storage" for all large data: your ML model weights, the input images/text, and the final results.
    * **Interaction:** Both the CPU and your accelerator can access this, but the accelerator does so directly via a high-bandwidth **AXI-Master bus** using DMA.

3.  **Your Verilog Accelerator IC:**
    * **Role:** It performs the heavy mathematical calculations of ML inference in parallel, at high speed.
    * **Interaction:**
        * **Receives commands** from the CPU (via AXI-Lite).
        * **Directly reads/writes large data** from/to external RAM (via AXI-Master DMA).
        * **Processes data** internally using its specialized `ml_processing_unit`.
        * **Notifies the CPU** when it's done (via an interrupt or status register).

#### How It Works: The Workflow

This is the exact sequence of events for performing an ML inference:

1.  **CPU Sets Up RAM (Software):**
    * Your CPU (running C++ code) first loads the ML model's **weights** from its own storage (e.g., flash memory, SSD) into a specific region of the **external RAM**. It knows the *start address* and *size* of these weights.
    * Similarly, it loads the **input data** (image pixels, text embeddings) into another specific region of the **external RAM**. It notes its *start address* and *size*.
    * It designates a third region in external RAM for the **output results**.

2.  **CPU Configures Accelerator (AXI-Lite Writes):**
    * The CPU writes to your accelerator's **control registers** (defined in `ml_accelerator_top.v`):
        * `ADDR_WGT_BASE_ADDR`: Where the weights begin in RAM.
        * `ADDR_WGT_SIZE`: How many bytes of weights.
        * `ADDR_INPUT_BASE_ADDR`: Where the input begins in RAM.
        * `ADDR_INPUT_SIZE`: How many bytes of input.
        * `ADDR_OUTPUT_BASE_ADDR`: Where the results should be written in RAM.
        * `ADDR_OP_CODE_REG`: This is crucial! It tells the accelerator *what kind of ML operation* to perform (e.g., a Convolutional Layer, a Fully Connected Layer, a ReLU activation, etc.).
        * `ADDR_OP_PARAMS_REG_0`, `ADDR_OP_PARAMS_REG_1`: Parameters for that operation (e.g., filter size, stride, number of channels, input tensor dimensions).

3.  **CPU Initiates Accelerator (AXI-Lite Write):**
    * The CPU writes a `1` to `ADDR_CONTROL_REG` (specifically, setting the `cpu_start_accel` bit). This is the "Go!" command.
    * The CPU is now **free** to do other tasks! It doesn't need to babysit the data transfer.

4.  **Accelerator Takes Over (DMA & Internal Computation):**
    * Your accelerator's main **FSM** (`current_state` in `ml_accelerator_top.v`) starts its sequence:
        * **`FSM_DMA_READ_WEIGHTS`:** It activates the internal `dma_controller.v`. The DMA controller independently reads the weights from the `ADDR_WGT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM and streams them directly into the `ml_processing_unit.v`.
        * **`FSM_DMA_READ_INPUT`:** Once weights are transferred, the DMA controller reads the input data from `ADDR_INPUT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM and streams it into the `ml_processing_unit.v`.
        * **`FSM_COMPUTE`:** The `ml_processing_unit.v` takes the streamed data and, using the `op_code` and `op_params`, performs the specified ML operation (e.g., a massive matrix multiplication for a convolutional layer). This happens at your IC's maximum clock speed and parallelism ("minimum clock cycle").
        * **`FSM_DMA_WRITE_OUTPUT`:** The `ml_processing_unit.v` streams its results to the DMA controller, which then writes them back to the `ADDR_OUTPUT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM.

5.  **Accelerator Signals Completion (Interrupt / Status Register):**
    * Once the DMA write is complete, the FSM transitions to `FSM_DONE`.
    * It sets the "Done" bit in `ADDR_STATUS_REG` and sends an **interrupt** signal to the CPU.

6.  **CPU Retrieves Results:**
    * The CPU receives the interrupt (or periodically polls `ADDR_STATUS_REG`).
    * It then directly reads the results from the `ADDR_OUTPUT_BASE_ADDR` in external RAM, knowing that the accelerator has placed them there.

#### Why This Is Fast and Flexible

* **DMA for Speed:** The CPU is never involved in moving large blocks of data. The DMA controller does it directly and very efficiently. This is critical for high-bandwidth applications like image processing.
* **Programmable Accelerator:** By writing `op_code` and `op_params` to registers, your single `ml_processing_unit.v` can perform *different types of ML operations*. This means it's not hardwired for just one model. You can chain together multiple operations (e.g., CONV -> RELU -> POOL -> FC) by sending a sequence of commands to the accelerator.
* **Minimum Clock Cycle Core:** The `ml_processing_unit.v` itself contains the highly parallel, pipelined hardware (like systolic arrays) that performs the actual mathematical operations in the fastest possible way.

* **Hardware Instructions:** A set of **primitive operations** that your hardware can perform.
    * **Common ML Primitives:**
        * Matrix Multiplication (Multiply-Accumulate, MAC) - for Convolutional and Fully Connected layers
        * Element-wise Addition/Subtraction/Multiplication
        * Activation Functions (ReLU, Sigmoid, Tanh) - usually implemented as lookup tables or simple comparators.
        * Pooling (Max Pool, Average Pool)
        * Normalization (Batch Norm)
    * Your `ml_processing_unit.v` would have dedicated, optimized hardware blocks for each of these primitives.

* **Software Layer:(after we are done with the verilog implementation)** We would then write a software library (e.g., a C++ library on the CPU) that breaks down a full ML model (like a TensorFlow Lite model) into a sequence of these primitive operations. The CPU then sends these operations, one by one, to your accelerator.

        accelerator.wait_for_interrupt();
        // ... and so on for each layer of the model
        ```

This modular approach allows you to implement various ML models by simply changing the sequence of primitive operations and their parameters that the CPU sends to your versatile hardware accelerator.
